[BREAKING: Former national security adviser Michael Flynn pleads guilty to lying to the FBI. Flynn’s admission is an ominous sign for the White House, indicating he is cooperating in the ongoing probe of possible coordination between the Trump campaign and Russia.]

Former national security adviser Michael Flynn has agreed to plead guilty Friday to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, marking another monumental development in the wide-ranging probe of special counsel Robert S. Mueller III. 

Flynn was expected to enter a plea at 10:30 a.m., according to the special counsel’s office. The charge relates to false statements Flynn made to the FBI on Jan. 24 — four days after President Trump was inaugurated — about his conversations with Kislyak during the transition.

[Read the charge against Michael Flynn]

Flynn is accused of making false statements to the FBI about asking the ambassador in late December to “refrain from escalating the situation in response to sanctions that the United States had imposed on Russia that same day.” Flynn also told authorities he did not recall the ambassador “subsequently telling him that Russia has chosen to moderate its response to those sanctions as a result of his request,” according to a court filing. That would suggest there was a second, previously unknown contact between Flynn and Kislyak.

 Former national security adviser Michael Flynn arrives for a plea hearing at U.S. District Court on Dec. 1. (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)
Separately, authorities say Flynn lied about asking the ambassador to delay a vote on United Nations Security Council resolutions.

Flynn is the highest-profile Trump ally — and the first aide who worked in the White House — to face charges in Mueller’s investigation. Trump developed a close rapport with Flynn on the campaign trail, where the general delivered fiery denunciations of Hillary Clinton, including leading a “lock her up” chant at the Republican National Convention, and he gave Trump much-needed national security credentials. Flynn, however, had a mixed reputation among other Trump aides, who thought he gave the president questionable information and questioned some of his business dealings. 